- [Instructor] So now we're going to look
at the benefits and simplicity of using spring transactions.
I already have the app up and started,
and I want to see all the ratings for a tour
with an ID of one.
In Postman, I want to get all the tour ratings for tour one.
And I see there is one for customer ID of four
with a score of five, and they loved it.
Now I want to invoke an API.
We're going to give a score of three to tour one
for customers with IDs one, two, three, four, five, and six.
And we get an internal server error
with a constraint violation exception on tour rating.
So let's debug this. Why is this happening?
So here is our method to post to the score
and the tour ID and a list of customers,
which invokes the tour rating service
to rate many customers for a particular tour,
and if we drill down into that service,
here's where we take the tour ID and the score
and the list of customers,
and we will iterate through the tour,
and for each customer,
we will add a new tour rating for that customer
and the tour.
But why are we getting the exception?
Why are we getting a constraint violation?
I think we need to look at the schema.sql,
and at the bottom of the schema.sql,
we have a constraint, which says on a tour rating,
you cannot have a customer rate more than one tour
of a certain tour ID.
So let's look again what happened whenever we did that post.
Let's see what tour ratings
there exist in the database for one.
And we see that it did create some,
we had the score of five for customer ID four,
but we also now have for customer ID one and two and three.
So it went through customer one, two, and three,
and then it stopped on four, because that's where
the constraint violation exception happened.
So it looks like our application is behaving as defined,
however, normally in a business level service call,
if there is a failure during execution,
the state of the data should appear
as if the service was never invoked.
This sounds complicated,
but spring transactions makes this incredibly easy
just by adding one annotation.
So I'm going to go back into the code
and stop my application,
and then on tour rating service, this rate many method,
I'm going to add annotation @transactional.
And now I'm going to run the application,
and I'm going to try that API again
for customers one, two, three, four, five, and six,
to set a score of three.
We still get the internal server error,
but let's look at the ratings for the tour again.
So we still have the customer ID four having its ratings,
but customers one, two, three have not been created.
The nice thing about @transactional is that it can be set
on a whole class, not just a method.
So let's move the annotation of the class.
Let's move it from the method,
and put it at the top of the class
so that all of these services
can be transactional and rolled back
if something fails.
Now we have a transactional service, thanks to spring.